# AZT as treatment for HIV - A statistical analysis on survival data
The human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, is a virus that attacks the immune system, specifically CD4 cells (or T cells). In the 1980s and early 1990s, the outbreak of HIV and AIDS swept across the United States and rest of the world and, still to this day, no cure exist for this virus and the disease it causes. However, numerous treatments have been developed over the years that allow HIV positive patients to live a happy and healty live. In this project, we look at the first antiretroviral medication that was developed for HIV in 1987, azidothymidine (AZT), and reproduce the statistical analysis that must have been performed during the clinical trials of this drug. 

The project works on two different datasets:  
  1. The first data set comes from a randomized study described in the New York Times (1991) looking at the effect of AZT (azidothymidine) on slowing the development of AIDS symptoms. The study included 338 individuals with HIV, who were randomized to either receive AZT immediately (AZT=yes) or only after severe immune weakness (AZT=no). At the end of the study the number of patients, who developed AIDS, was recorded for the two treatment groups. 
  2. The second data set comes from a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that compared a three-drug treatment with a standard two-drug treatment in HIV-infected patients (Hammer et al., 1997). Patients were eligible for the trial if they had no more than 200 CD4 cells per cubic millimeter and at least three months of prior zidovudine therapy. Randomization was stratified by CD4 cell count at the time of screening. The primary outcome measure was time to AIDS or death. Because efficacy results met a pre-specified level of significance at an interim analysis, the trial was stopped early.

The data (logistic.txt and actg.txt) can be found in the data/ directory in this repository. It was originally obtained from Hosmer, D.W. and Lemeshow, S. and May, S. (2008) Applied Survival Analysis: Regression Modeling of Time to Event Data: Second Edition, John Wiley and Sons Inc., New York, NY.

A set of slides that serve as as report of the results can also be found under the results/ directory in this repository.
